# What are Events?

A mechanism for communication between objects
This helps extensibility.
An object that sends the event is called the ***Publisher*** and the object that receives it is called the ***subscriber***. The publisher knows nothing about the subscriber.
Like the way we used polymorphism in interfaces to have multiple classes that have the same method but implement it different, here we use events. So when something needs to be done, we send an event.

For a publishers to notify subscribers it needs to invoke a method in them. It does that with a method with a specific signature. These methods are called ***Event Handlers***:
`publicc void EventMethod(object source, EventArgs e){}`
We need to have a method like this in our subscribers. So when the publisher needs to, it will call these methods.
The publisher *does not* know about the existence of the subscribers.

We use Delegates to tell the publisher which method to call.
The delegate Determines the signature of the event handler in subscriber.

So to create an event that a publisher can use:

1.  Define a delegate
2.  Define an event based on that delegate
3.  Raise that event

The name of the event handler by convention is: Name of the method + EventHandler

After creating our event delegate, we define an event based on that delegate.

```C#
// Publisher
public delegate void MethodNameEventHandler(object source, EventArgs args);
public event MethodNameEventHandler EventName; // Accept only methods with an object and an arg paramter
```

Then we need to raise the event. to do that we define a method.
In .Net, by convention event publisher methods should be `protected virtual void` and the name should start with `On + Event name`
So we need to call the method.

```c#
// Publisher
protected virtual void OnEventName()
{
        // we start by checking if there are any subscribers in the method
    if(EventName != null)
        // This class is sending the event
        EventName(this, EventArgs.Empty);
}
```

Now in the subscriber classes, we need a method with the same signature as the delegate in the publisher class(the void and parameters):

```c#
// Subscriber
// This is the event handler
public void OnEventName(object source, EventArgs args){
    // ...
}
```

So to call the event for example:

```c#
// main.cs
var p = new Publisher();
var s = new Subscriber();

p.EventName += s.OnEventName; // This is called subscription
```

Then inside the publisher when we call `OnEventName()` because we have added method pointers to EventName, It will not be `null` and all the methods inside it will be run.
***Note***: we need to the subscription before calling the event handler.

Now if we want to send additional information in the event, instead of `EventArgs` we need to create a custom class which derives from `EventArgs`.

In C# we don't have to create a delegate every time we need an event.
We `EventHandler` and `EventHandler<>`.
So we use it like:
`public event EventHandler EventName;`
And we don't need to explicitly define a delegate.
Now when we define a custom class for our `EventArgs` to pass additional data, we use:
`public event EventHandler<CustomEventArgs> EventName;`

# Recap

So to work with events:
***Publisher***

1.  Create an `EventaHandler` object with EventName.
2.  Create a publisher method were we check in the EventName is `null` if not execute.
    ***Subscriber***
3.  Create a method with the same signature as EventName.

***Main Program***

1.  Subscribe events to the publisher by adding them to the `EventHandler`