# What is LINQ

It stands for ***Language Integrated Query*** and it give us the ability to query objects in C# natively.
We can query:

- Objects in memory eg collections (LINQ to Objects)
- Databases (LINQ to entities)
- XML (LINQ to XML)
- ADO.NET Data Sets (LINQ to Data Sets)

The `LING` namespace holds numerous extension methods for `IEnumerable` types.
These methods mostly take predicates which we provide with `lambda`s.
Another feature of these methods is that we can chain them together.

## Useful methods in LINQ:

- `Where()`: finds objects that fit a condition and stores them in another `IEnumerable`
- `single()`: Like `Where()` but returns a single object. Throws an exception if the object is not found.
- `SingleOrDefault()`: Unlike `Single()` doesn't throw an exception. returns `null` instead.
- `First()`: Gets the first object in a collection. Optionally can be provided with a predicate and return the first object that matches it. Throws an exception if the object is not found.
- `FirstOrDefault()`: Unlike `First()` doesn't throw an exception. returns `null` instead.
- `Last()/LastOrDefault()`: Similar to `First()` but for the last element of the collection.
- `OrderBy()`: Orders by the specified key eg `b => b.Title`
- `Select()`: Is used for projections and transformations.
- `Skip(n).Take(m)`: These are used for paging data. means skip the first `n` data and return the `m` remaining.
- `Count()`: pretty self explanatory.
- `Max()/Min()`: Returns an object that is assumed max/min of something. We have to define it by a predicate.
- `Sum()`: Returns the sum of the values selected by a selector. eg `b => b.price` returns sum of price.

## LINQ Syntaxes

We have two conventions for writing LINQ:

1.  LINQ Extension Methods:
    
    ```c#
    var cheapBooks = books
                                            .Where(b => b.price > 10)
                                            .OrderBy(b => b.Title)
                                            .Select(b => b.Title);
    ```
    
2.  LINQ Query Operators:
    
    ```c#
    var cheapBooks = 
        from b in books
        where b.price < 10
        orderby b.Title
        select b.Title;
    ```
    

The syntax of LINQ stays the same no matter what we are querying.