# What are Nullable Types

In C# value types ***Cannot*** be null.
For example in our database we might want to set a `DateTime` value to `null`. But structs are value types.
We can define nullable value type with a generic structure called `Nullable<>`:
`Nullable<DateTime> date = null;`
We also have a shorter syntax: `Type?`:
`DateTime? date = null;`

Nullable types have 3 main methods we'll use a lot:

- `GetValueOrDefault()`: Returns the value if defined or the default value of that type.
- `HasValue()`: Returns true if the object has a value and false if it is null.
- `Value()`: returns the value of the object. throws an exceptions if the object is null.

We cannot put a nullable type into a value type. we have to use the `GetValueOrDefault()` method. But a value type can be inverted into a nullable type.

`DateTime date2 = date.GetValueOrDefault();`

# Null-Coalescing

In C#, the `??` operator is known as the null-coalescing operator. It's used to check if a value is null and provide a default value in case it is.

Here's an example:

```C#
string myString = null;
string myOtherString = myString ?? "default value";
```

In this example, the variable `myString` is assigned a value of `null`. The `??` operator checks if `myString` is null and if so, assigns the value `"default value"` to `myOtherString`.

If `myString` had a non-null value, `myOtherString` would be assigned the value of `myString`.

Here's another example:

```C#
int? myNullableInt = null;
int myInt = myNullableInt ?? 0;
```

In this example, `myNullableInt` is a nullable integer variable that's assigned a value of `null`. The `??` operator checks if `myNullableInt` is null and if so, assigns the value `0` to `myInt`.

If `myNullableInt` had a non-null value, `myInt` would be assigned the value of `myNullableInt`.