We have two types of programming languages:

- Statically Typed: Type resolution at compile-time. In a static typed language, variables are declared with a specific data type, and the compiler checks that the code is consistent with those types at compile time. This means that errors related to variable types are caught before the code is executed. Examples of statically typed languages include Java, C, and C++.
- Dynamically Typed: Type resolution at run-time. Variables are not declared with a specific data type, and their data type can change during runtime. The type checking is done at runtime, which means that errors related to variable types may not be caught until the code is actually executed. Examples of dynamically typed languages include Python, Ruby, and JavaScript.

## C\#

Started as a static language but >NET 4 added dynamic capability to improve interoperability with COM(eg writing office apps) and Dynamic Languages(IronPython).
Without dynamics we have to use reflection.

## Reflection

Reflection in C# is the ability of a program to examine and modify its own structure and behavior at runtime. It allows the program to inspect and manipulate its own metadata, types, methods, properties, and events.

Using reflection, a C# program can perform a variety of tasks at runtime, such as:

- Loading types and assemblies dynamically
- Retrieving and examining type information, including inheritance hierarchies, implemented interfaces, and attributes
- Creating instances of types and invoking their methods and constructors
- Retrieving and setting the values of fields and properties
- Adding or removing events
- Generating code dynamically

Reflection is commonly used in C# for tasks such as creating plugins or add-ons that can be loaded and executed dynamically, or for creating frameworks that rely on runtime information about types and assemblies.

# Dynamic

Lets say we're getting an excel object and we know that object has a method we need at runtime. eg:

```C#
object excelObject = sth...
excelObject.ExcelMethod();	
```

Since we defined the excelObject as `object`, we do not have access to its methods until run-time. because `object` does not have `ExcelMethod()`.
We can define the type as `dynamic` to set the type during run-time or use reflections which are complicated.
`dynamic excelObject = sth...`

To make this happen in .Net framework 4+ we have something called DLR(Dynamic Language Runtime) which sits on top of CLR and adds dynamic language capabilities to C#.